MakeHuman is an open source (AGPL3) tool designed to simplify the creation of
virtual humans using a Graphical User Interface, also commonly referred to as a
GUI. This is a specialized branch of the more general subject of 3D modelling.
The MakeHuman Team is focused on this specific branch of the broader subject in
order to achieve the best possible level of quality and ease of use in that
area. The ultimate goal is to be able to quickly produce a wide array of
realistic virtual humans with only a few clicks of the mouse and be able to
render or export them for use in other projects.

Humans are created through the manipulation of controls that allow for the
blending of different human attributes to create unique 3D human characters. The
controls are intended to provide the user with a simple way to create characters
that give expression to the widest possible range of human forms. The
controllable attributes are broken into two groups: macro and detail. The macro
targets deal with overall human characteristics like gender, age, height, weight
and ethnicity. The detail targets allow for the character to be further refined
by focusing on the low level details of such things as the eye's shape or
finger's length.

The MakeHuman project strives to provide a complete tool that allows for the
management of all things needed to create realistic virtual humans. This
includes some tools that have not yet been created or are in the early stages of
development for things like poses, animation cycles, managing facial
expressions, hair and clothes. With the exception of modelling, most of these
tools follow a "point and click" approach by using the MakeHuman's Library. Via
the MakeHuman library, users preview and load poses, animation cycles, facial
expressions, hair, shoes and clothes onto their character. MakeHuman also offers
tools for exporting virtual humans to other software (such as the Blender 3D
modeling suite) where further refinements can be made.

MakeHuman is developed by a community of programmers, artists, academics and
enthusiasts interested in 3D computer models of human beings.
